---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---


### Cathedral vs. Bazaar

According to Eric S. Raymond, author of "The Cathedral and The Bazaar", there are two models for software development: the cathedral model, wherein a few developers already have a grand plan in their minds and slowly build their way towards it, and the bazaar model, which encourages many developers to continually contribute and discuss and adapt the project as it progresses. Raymond suggests that the more traditional cathedral model often relies on a few 'wizards' and 'mages' to build the final complex project, whereas the bazaar releases quickly and is worked on by people of all different backgrounds with different agendas for the project.

Personally, I would probably be more comfortable working in the traditional cathedral model, as I am not very aggressive and tend to do better in structured environments: if you tell me what needs to be done and when it needs to be done by, I will find a way to do it, but if you give me a vague idea of a goal and tell me to try to convince others that my way is better, I will likely spend too much time listening to input from others or letting more capable people take over for me.


### Lessons

Throughout Raymond's article, he imparts 19 pieces of advice or lessons. I personally found a few of them to be repetitive or obvious, but the ones that stood out to me were number 9 and number 13:

> #9 Smart data structures and dumb code works a lot better than the other way around.

What I got from this lesson is that your data structures are really the foundation of your code; it's easier to build off of smart data structures and refactor code later than have dumb data structures that force you to code in an unintuitive way. This isn't something I would've naturally realized by myself; when I code I don't spend *that* much time thinking about my data structures or code from a higher level point of view, so I thought this lesson was insightful and something I could geniunely learn from. Hopefully I'll keep this in mind in the future and spend more time thinking through my data structures instead of jumping right into coding.

> #13 “Perfection (in design) is achieved not when there is nothing more to add, but rather when there is nothing more to take away.”

This lesson states that design can only be perfect if it is as uncluttered as possible: if there's still more you can take away and have it work, then there must still be superfluous content in your design. Again, this is a lesson I don't think I could've gotten to on my own. I don't often think of design in general (I am more of a coder than a designer), but I have been trying to be more mindful of design and design concepts lately, and this was an interesting perspective and will hopefully remind me to keep things as simple as possible.
