---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---


### Open Source Project Questions

This week, we are supposed to answer the following questions:
  - What type of things are you looking for when you select an open source project to work on?
  - What are you able to offer to the team that you will be working on for the project? (What are your strengths)
  - What are you hoping to learn from working on an open source project?
  - What are you most worried about when you are thinking about and planning to work on an open source project? 

My answers are as follows:
When I'm looking for an open source project to work on, what I want to see is:
  - Recent activity: this shows there are people actively contributing to the project and I won't be screaming into a void with my comments or issues (also, there would be people I can ask questions to if needed)
  - Good receptiveness/community: I wouldn't want to work with people who couldn't take criticism or don't want help, it'd just be a waste of both of our time (probably unlikely, as this question is in the context of open source projects)(also just more pleasant to work with pleasant people)
  - Manageability: Would I need to do hours and hours of research to understand what the project is about? Would I need to dig through hundreds of lines of messy, poorly documented code with confusing variable names? Would I need to dedicate too much time to make change? Am I expected to respond instantly to any comments? Because all of that sounds like a bad time.
  - A project I would use: this one isn't a requirement for me, but definitely a bonus. I'd like to work on a project I would actually use, otherwise I don't get to reap the benefits of my efforts, and I would likely be less passionate about it

I believe my greatest strength that differentiates me from other people in a project is my attention to detail. I think this could be quite annoying for people who could find it too nitpicky, but I'd be good for tying up loose ends, making sure formatting/naming/syntax is consistent, and clarifying documentation. Other more obvious strengths are my coding, work ethic, and extensive free time.

I don't know much about the real world or how to apply code in real life, so I think the more different types of project I'm exposed to the more I will understand how real professionals approach a project and bring it to completion. It's also just really cool to me to see the behind-the-scenes of things, and programs is no different, like it'd be just super interesting to look at the code base for a browser or something and learn how things work together, because I have no concept really at this point in my life. That's the biggest thing for me, but I'm sure I'll learn things like effective communication/teamwork, better code practices/design patterns, and maybe new APIs or packages.

Personally I'm most worried about whether or not I can actually contribute, or if I'd just be ignored or worse, waste people's time by not properly understanding the etiquette, priorities, or code base. I think I'd personally need to do a lot of research on the project or ask people to clarify a lot of things. 

### Questions for Aurelia Moser from Mozilla

  - How did you get into cartography and do you have a favorite map projection?
  - You've worked at many different companies doing different types of jobs, how did you decide when to switch tracks?

### Contributions this week

This week I opened a [new issue](https://github.com/joannakl/cs480_s18/issues/85) for the class website
