---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---


### Google Talk Reflection

I thought it was interesting that Google does a mix of open source and proprietary software. It's nice that they (as a huge name in the tech industry) support open source, but honestly I don't think that their projects are well known or very big; we took a look at some of them and they may be active but they're pretty new. It also is rather intimidating for a beginner like me to try to work on Google's open source stuff. I did think it was interesting that they kept their more well known projects closed source, and I think it's smart of them to do so, since competitors could easily steal their software otherwise. I'm actually surprised at how few things they keep closed.

### Team Progress

This week during our meeting I mentioned that we should try to switch projects even though it was late in the game, and found that all of us had the same sentiment; we had tried so hard for so long to find an issue and triage everything so it was very disappointing, but PDF.js wasn't a viable project for us to continue working on. We figured it'd be better to cut our losses now and try to get some work done elsewhere, and take our experiences from working on PDF.js to hopefully move forward more successfully. Overall, PDF.js was written in a language that was familiar to us and the community was very responsive, but we didn't know enough about JavaScript in the context of a browser extension and just could not understand the code base, even after poring over it for hours. Still, I don't think it was a waste, because I know my triaging at least had an impact: many of the older issues had been resolved by browser or PDF.js updates already, so several of the issues I triaged could be safely closed.

After concretely deciding that we would move on from PDF.js, we knew we should spend time looking at projects, because it was unlikely that the professor would let us switch if we didn't have a new project in mind, and we ended up spending the rest of the meeting time looking through viable projects. I looked on CodeTriage and Google's open source projects, filtering by the languages we knew and looking at how many open issues there were, the ratio to closed to open issues, the recent activity levels, and the size of the code base. Everyone was looking at a bunch of different sources and speaking up about interesting potential projects, and bouncing ideas off each other, so it was definitely a good thing to do in person together. 

I think all of us are pretty excited about this new project, since it's less dry than a PDF viewer. Hopefully this will translate into a continued enthusiasm for the project as we continue to work on it. I personally have already looked at  a few issues and set up the [milestones](https://github.com/nyu-ossd-s18/terasology-plan/projects/1) for the group; I also got the source code and figured out how to run it. I joined the [IRC](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=terasology&uio=d4?channels=%23terasology&nick=Terasologist...&prompt=1&useUserListIcons=true) and made an account on the [forum](https://forum.terasology.org/) as well. Since we have such a late start, I suggested that we have an informal second meeting on Saturday, and that was nice since it took a long time to download the code during class and we spent a lot of time during class looking for issues to work on, but we didn't actually get to play the game. We spent the meeting trying to figure out how to run for everyone and how to play in multiplayer mode. Ryan's game keeps crashing (Ubuntu) and the rest of us mostly found success using the unstable build, which noticably had a lot of glitches and lag. We figured out the commands for moving, taking screenshots, showing inventory, chatting, running commands in-game, and showing directional information of the characters. We also took a look at the codebase to find where the [torch issue](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/Terasology/issues/3280) might be stemming from, but didn't see a fix so asked for more guidance. I'm glad we had this informal meeting to get our feet wet in the project before meeting during class time next week.

### Contributions this week:

This week I opened [an issue on the class website](https://github.com/joannakl/cs480_s18/issues/104), as I noticed there was some inconsistent underlining when I took a look at the syllabus. I saw another [already open issue for the course site](https://github.com/joannakl/cs480_s18/issues/99) that I found a possible solution for, so I left a comment suggesting that a fixer try it. I also commented on [an issue for Terasology](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/Terasology/issues/3307) saying that our group would try to work on it (to claim it before anyone else takes it), and commented on [a second issue](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/Terasology/issues/3280) explaining that we tried to follow their recommended steps and to ask for further guidance.

#### Progress thus far:
  - [Wikipedia Contributions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Contributions/Dorasun): 3 (two new page sections, many citation fixes, one added definition)
  - Class Site Contributions: 4 [issues raised](https://github.com/joannakl/cs480_s18/issues/created_by/dorasun), 1 [pull request](https://github.com/joannakl/cs480_s18/pulls?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Apr+author%3Adorasun), 9 [comments](https://github.com/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=commenter%3Adorasun+repo%3Ajoannakl%2Fcs480_s18&type=Issues)
  - Other Contributions: 
      - PDF.js: 6 [comments](https://github.com/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=commenter%3Adorasun+repo%3Amozilla%2Fpdf.js&type=Issues)
      - Terasology: 2 [comments](https://github.com/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=commenter%3Adorasun+repo%3AMovingBlocks%2FTerasology&type=Issues)
  - **Total counting towards the 20 by the end of the semester: 19**
