---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---


### Reporting Issues

As part of our homework last week, I had to report an issue on GitHub for the first time, and we had to create fixes for issues opened by other people. This was my first time doing so, but I tried to use the GitHub UI (we went over how to fork and pull etc. in class, but I've never done it on GitHub so I figured I'd try it). I found where the bug was located, and clicked the edit button, which automatically created a new branch in my fork of the site. After I made the edit, I hit the propose file change button at the bottom of the screen, which prompted me to create a pull request. GitHub had a green check mark letting me know that the branches could be merged as there were no merge conflicts, and showed the exact line and change that I made. It then told me to make a pull request via a large green button, which led me to [the pull request screen](https://github.com/joannakl/cs480_s18/pull/66). Unfortunately, after I did all this, I read the instructions for blog posts and saw that I was supposed to list the git commands listed, which are as follows: 

```
(press the fork button on joannakl/cs480_s18)
cd Desktop
git clone https://github.com/dorasun/cs480_s18.git
cd cs480_s18
vim index.markdown
(make edits and save file)
git add index.markdown
git commit -m "Typo fix"
git push
```
(go to [page with changes](https://github.com/joannakl/cs480_s18/compare/gh-pages...dorasun:gh-pages) and hit pull request, make [new pull request](https://github.com/joannakl/cs480_s18/pull/70))


We were also supposed to make CodeTriage accounts, which I found super easy to do by linking my GitHub account. Their user interface was super easy to understand, and I quickly subscribed to a few projects, namely numpy, pandas, and julia. As soon as you choose a project to subscribe to, they ask you how many issues you'd like to be emailed, which I appreciated, as often services don't allow such flexibility especially when you first sign up. They send the emails soon after you choose the projects, and the emails give clear instructions as well as CodeTriage's goals. After the first day, they give short and efficient emails that simply list a number of open issues. I have yet to make contributions yet, but it looks like it would be easy to do as the emails link directly to the github page of the issue.
