---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---


### Open Source and Humanitarianism:

> *Humanitarian (adj.): relating to or characteristic of people who work to improve the lives and living conditions of other people*

Some open source projects are very clearly humanitarian; for example, in class my group performed a project evaluation on OpenMRS, an open source project for medical record systems in developing countries. This has many obvious humanitarian aspects, from centralizing medical data in countries where there may not be organized record standards, to making it easier for doctors to maintain the data in order to save time and maximize treatment efficiency. It also makes data analysis easier as everything is formatted the same way, which could lead to the prevention of diseases as trends are analyzed. Projects like these where there is a clear goal of solving a serious problem are clearly humanitarian.

In my opinion, *every* open source project is humanitarian, even ones that have no obvious immediate benefits to anybody. Open source allows people to work collaboratively to create a product that's free to use for others, which will ultimately improve someone's life, even if not in a clear or big way. For example, Wikipedia improves the lives of many people as it is a freely accessible wealth of knowledge, making it simple for people to understand concepts and related topics as so many articles are linked together. This may not be as life-changing as OpenMRS can be, but it still makes the world a better place, whether by allowing people to learn more about a field they have not yet made connections to, or spurring someone's interest in something they had only heard about before, or even just because it allows people to better inform themselves. Wikipedia may not save lives but it opens up the world by promoting learning and becoming a free resource that anyone can use.

Even open source projects with a lot of similar competition can be considered humanitarian. Firefox is not dramatically different or better than Google Chrome or Safari, but there are people who prefer to use it, and therefore their lives are enhanced because of it. Additionally, being an open source project means that Firefox can adapt to changing user preferences faster than other browsers, and this drives its competition to be more receptive than otherwise. If many users urgently wanted a way to delete specific browsing history, it would likely take big companies a long time to consider the option, but with an open source project like Firefox in the mix, users can make the changes themselves, and other users may migrate to Firefox, forcing big companies to keep up. Again, having an open source browser probably doesn't save any lives, but it improves the living conditions of Internet users everywhere by forcing competitors to be responsive and up-to-date.

I believe that every open source project improves lives or has the potential to, and no matter how big or small that improvement is, it still brings us to a better world than without it.

### Further Contributions:

After our meeting this week, I think we realized how difficult it might get for all five of us to make many contributions to PDF.js, especially since we don't have much of a grasp on the large code base. The next thing I plan to do personally, is to go through all the files in the project and skim the code and try to glean a better understanding of where everything is and what different files do and what may need working on, so we can progress further as a team. This next week is going to be brutal for me, however, so I'm not sure how much of this I can actually get done.

### Contributions this week:

This week I have added four comments to PDF.js issues that needed triaging: [here](https://github.com/mozilla/pdf.js/issues/9232), [here](https://github.com/mozilla/pdf.js/issues/9049), and [two here](https://github.com/mozilla/pdf.js/issues/9128).

#### Progress thus far:
  - [Wikipedia Contributions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Contributions/Dorasun): 3
  - Class Site Contributions: 3 issues raised, 1 pull request, 8 comments
  - Other Contributions: 
      - PDF.js: 4 comments
  - **Total counting towards the 20 by the end of the semester: 15**
