---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---


### Open Data Week:

I emailed photo proof that I was at these events to the professor.

#### 3/2: Data Through Design Open Reception

Ashley, Dana, Kenneth, Ryan and I went to the Data Through Design exhibit during its open reception. The weather was brick on our way to this event, but I wanted to go to this session as it was the open reception and first event of Open Data Week, and I hoped to be able to talk to some of the creators. This ended up only happening for the first art piece I saw, which was a few laser cut layers superimposed on each other, categorizing different types of locations in NYC and marking deaths that occured in these zones. I believe the categories were industrial/manufacturing, businesses, and homes, but I don't remember. I got to ask the creator to explain what the piece was about, and he said it was to show the relationship between areas and the people who inhabit them, but as a visualization of the data (he wasn't trying to show causations or anything). 

Next I went to a booth with pamphlets and headphones and digital infographics/videos explaining common errors in data analysis. I found the info sheet to be extremely clear and concise, giving good illustrative examples in colloquial language. The digital display was entertaining, if a bit slow, and the structure drew a lot of attention because it was interactive. I think it was slightly limited as there were only two sets of headphones, and worse, one set of buttons for controls, so the two people listening would have to agree to listen to the same ones. I waited for a long time for headphones to free up, only for the guy next to me to skip through half of the explanations. The visuals were well coordinated with the story-telling videos, which were funny and attention drawing, and it was an interesting piece. 

Another cool interactive piece was a structure made of wood and lengths of rope to illustrate the amount of petty crime in each precinct. People liked this one a lot because it was visually appealing and made for good pictures. It also had an iPad that allowed you to sort by precinct and by specific crime which was really cool, to be able to walk through the data and see graphs for individual pieces of the data. It was kind of difficult to navigate though, and I couldn't find the key as to which ropes corresponded to which crimes. The precincts drawn on the floor also weren't labelled, so people would have to crowd around the iPad which wasn't really ideal in such a crowded space. I only found the key to the exhibit's colorful ropes when I looped back around to help Ryan take a picture with it, but even then the key was really small and it was on the iPad attached to one beam, so it was hard to walk around the exhibit and remember what each color stood for. I think the idea was really cool and the visualization of data was interactive and beautiful, but there were things I wish were different so I could better understand the data without waiting in a line or squinting at strips of color on a small iPad screen.

The sexual assault visualizer was really cool and really well done, and very sobering. Seeing so many lights come on at once was honestly really sad. I liked this one because it was very intuitive; the hand of the clock would move and then the lights woul come on or fade out. Every day of a year was laid out in a grid, and there was a clock shown, and everything was very clear. The words attached to this one were large and readable, unlike the tiny cards for other ones. I think this one did the best job of considering the space it would be shown in, and not just making something for the sake of making it.

There was a similar piece showing the causes of death for various demographics. This one was really confusing, because there was no marking for the causes, just occaisional movement, and no indication of what the movement meant. I assumed that if the sticks moved, it was a common cause, but it wasn't very clear, and there weren't solid numbers backing the data. The specific demographic being shown was only visible on a tiny screen, and the clear sticks and location of the labels for the causes of death made it hard to understand what was going on. Again, this was an exhibit best appreciated from one spot, and no one else would be able to understand what was happening if they were not standing there.

One piece showed the trees in NYC by neighborhood, with wooden blocks indicating the number of trees via their height, and type of wood indicating the most common tree. This was a really cool exhibit because you could walk around it and read the different labels for different neighborhoods, and was super visually appealing.

I didn't spend a lot of time with the haiku generator, but basically it created haikus based on words commonly used to describe differnet job positions. I grabbed one for computer scientist though!

I also got to meet a dog named Pumpkin, and her human named Cheshire(?), who works in the building the reception was held at :) they were nice.

#### 3/5: NYC Open Data Week @ NYU

I also attended the NYC Open Data Week @ NYU event, but could only stay for the panel, as I wasn't feeling great and was kind of nauseous all day. I did walk around the room before the panel began, to look at the different posters. I appreciated the panel, because they discussed the meaning of open data, and the impact on their different fields. After the first exhibit, I had a good idea of what you could do with the data, but not the nuances of open data. I thought it was interesting how open data is affected by governments and how careful you have to be about certain datasets and not opening them up. It was really interesting to me to see the implication of open data and how it affected different fields, from the student researchers who gave talks, to the artists who created such beautiful works by interpreting it, to the legal system to promote more fairness when enforcing laws. 

### Contributions this week

This week I didn't have time to make any contributions, between all the exams and assignments I had just before spring break, and planning for break as well.

#### Progress thus far:
  - [Wikipedia Contributions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Contributions/Dorasun): 3
  - Class Site Contributions: 3 issues raised, 1 pull request, 8 comments
  - Other Contributions: 0
  - **Total counting towards the 20 by the end of the semester: 11**
