---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---


### Open Source

When I hear the words 'open source', I think of a group or community working together to create a project (can be a piece of software or a body of work online) where every piece of the project is open for newcomers to access for free and contribute to. Because of this open access to source code, it's easy for people who are interested to add to the codebase and contribute both their code but also their own experiences and points of view. In this way, both the code itself and its impact grow, as a wider demographic of contributers would also likely result in a wider demographic that can benefit from the work. On the other hand, because of the large number of contributers, it can become more difficult to manage the project and deal with merge conflicts or other conflicts that arise when different people come together. 


### Projects

Some projects I use on the regular or have influenced me include:

1. [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page) - a free online encyclopedia which users can freely edit and add to
  * Wikipedia is a great source of information on an abundance of topics, and since it's contributed to by so many people, you can really find an article for anything you're interested in. 
  * Many people fact check the things written on Wikipedia so it's a decently reliable source, and each article has links to sources so you can easily read more if needed. If the article is lacking in content or sources, it usually has a warning right at the top of the page so its users are well informed.
  * Alternatives exist such as Googling and doing your own research and verifying your sources on your own, but it's often easier to read a summarized version on Wikipedia.

2. [p5js](https://p5js.org/) - a JavaScript library for allowing users to draw on the web
  * I had to use p5 extensively for my [Interactive Computing](http://i6.cims.nyu.edu/~ds4313/Interactive/) class last semester, and it really opened my eyes as to how many different things you can do with JavaScript.
  * The library has many sub-libraries contributed by other people, including a Sound library that allowed my partner and me to use the fast Fourier transform algorithm to create a game using sound, which was a lot easier than us trying to figure out how to do it from scratch, which we would've had to do without this project.

3. [GIMP (GNU Image Manipulation Program](https://www.gimp.org/) - an open source image editing software
  * To be frank, I absolutely hate using GIMP, and avoid it when possible, but that is only because I originally learned image editing on Adobe's Photoshop. I have recently heard that you can actually use perl and python within GIMP to automate the making of patterned animations, which sounds amazing and out of scope for Photoshop.
  * Compared to Photoshop's monthly subscription of about $20, GIMP is completely free which makes it a really valuable tool for people who are just starting out with design or that only need to edit images once in a while. It was helpful to me (before I torrented Photoshop) to have something available to edit software (even though I find its UI unintuitive)

4. [MySQL](https://dev.mysql.com/) - an open source relational database
  * I took a database class and learned backend for the first time, and we used MySQL as a relational database. I found it very easy to use and understand, and would easily choose to use it again if I had a project that required a relational database.
  * There are many alternatives to MySQL such as PostgreSQL, Oracle, SQLite, etc. but MySQL is easy to learn and use so I would probably use it again if it were the best fit for the project I was working on.


### Questions for Tom Callaway from Red Hat

* Why do lemurs worship you? How do I get them to worship me?
* What is your favorite open source project that you have worked on and why?
* What advice do you have for someone who has never worked on an open source project before but is interested in trying?
* What's something you would change about the world of open source?
* What closed source project is your favorite and how could it have benefitted from being open source?

